So let's install that new cli,
now for that you run npm install -g to install it globally @vue/cli, and that's important,
the old cli could and can still be found at the vue cli
written like this
vue-cli, the new cli is found at
@vue/cli.
So these are two different packages
and you can use either of the two,
you don't have to upgrade
and by default, with vue-cli, you still get the old one,
this is the new one. You can of course also use yarn to install that, if you are using that,
it's an alternative package manager and on Mac and Linux, you probably need to add a sudo in front
of that to get the right permissions to install that, on Windows it should work without sudo. Then
you can hit enter,
you might be prompted for your password and then this the cli gets installed and now it's important,
this will replace the vue binary which you used to run vue init,
so from now on you can't run vue init anymore, at least not without the little change or a little edition
which I will show you later.
So let's wait for this installation to finish
now,
now with the cli installed, you can run vue create to create a new project
and there's one thing you need to specify here and that is the project name, so I'll name it vue-cli-new,
you can of course choose any name you want.
Now you can hit enter then and once you do that, you can choose a preset here,
now I already created one dummy preset and I save that,
that is why I can choose it,
you can also go with the default preset which you, well you see which features it gives you, it gives
you babel so that you can use next gen javascript features and linting or very interesting,
manually select features.
If we hit enter there, we can check these features by navigating with the arrow keys and hitting space
on any feature we want to mark,
so there we can add things like babel, progressive web app support,
we can decide if we want to use the vue router in the project or vuex, if we want to add css preprocessing,
so if we want to use SASS for example, linting, unit testing, all these things. Once you're done, you can
simply hit enter
and now, some of the plugins might need additional configuration,
for example the linting plugin here is asking us for which linting rules to use and I'll go
with the standard config here.
I also have to choose if I want to lint on save and that's also coming from that linting plugin
and I will confirm the default here and then you can define where you want to manage your options, in
dedicated config files which will be added to your project folder
or do you want to manage all the configuration in the package.json file
and I will go with the dedicated config files. You're then prompted whether you want to save that preset
for future projects and if you hit yes, you can give it a name, standard-custom, whatever you want
and now if you run vue create again, you'll have this as an option.
Now let's wait for this to finish
and whilst it finishes, let me show you something interesting. In your user folder on your operating system,
you'll find that vuerc file, it's a hidden file so you might need to turn on the option to view
hidden files
and if you inspect that let's say with the normal text edit app, then this actually is the global configuration
for the new vue cli
and there, you also see all the presets you created,
so let me increase that. Here you see that presets node, that's my dummy preset and that's the one I
just configured
and there you see which plugins you added for this preset and for each plugin, if it requires additional
configuration, which configuration options you chose.
So this is where this gets stored and this of course also is a place where you can edit this,
for example if I wanted to get rid of my test one preset, well then I could of course simply delete it
from here, like this.
In the meantime my installation finished and we're now ready to use our new project,
we see some commands with which we can get started here so I can simply navigate into my newly created
folder and run npm run serve which is an npm script automatically generated to use the locally, so in that project
installed vue cli to bring up the development server and build the development bundle.
So if I hit enter here, this will bring up that dev server, build the project for the first time and once
done, it'll allow you to visit this URL here to visit your running page which is life reloading upon
changes has hot module reloading, all that fun stuff you would expect.
Here it is,
that's the starting page it generated for you,
now let's have a look at that project it gave us in an IDE.